# Space-race-with-Data-Science
Capstone Project
The commercial space age is here, companies are making space travel affordable for everyone. Virgin Galactic is providing suborbital spaceflights. Rocket Lab is a small satellite provider. Blue Origin manufactures sub-orbital and orbital reusable rockets. Perhaps the most successful is SpaceX. SpaceX’s accomplishments include: Sending spacecraft to the International Space Station. Starlink, a satellite internet constellation providing satellite Internet access. Sending manned missions to Space. One reason SpaceX can do this is the rocket launches are relatively inexpensive. SpaceX advertises Falcon 9 rocket launches on its website with a cost of 62 million dollars; other providers cost upwards of 165 million dollars each, much of the savings is because SpaceX can reuse the first stage. Therefore, if we can determine if the first stage will land, we can determine the cost of a launch.
Sometimes the first stage does not land. Sometimes it will crash as shown in this clip. Other times, Space X will sacrifice the first stage due to the mission parameters like payload, orbit, and customer. In this capstone, I will take the role of a data scientist working for a new rocket company. Space Y that would like to compete with SpaceX. My job is to determine the price of each launch. I will do this by gathering information about Space X and creating dashboards for my team. I will also determine if SpaceX will reuse the first stage. Instead of using rocket science to determine if the first stage will land successfully, I will train a machine learning model and use public information to predict if SpaceX will reuse the first stage.
